Welcome back.
We learned that we were able to create an actual attribute for the class.
But what about a method.
Is there a way to do something like here what we do with attributes but for methods well there is and
we use a decorator which is a topic that will cover later on and you'll understand how these work underneath
the hood in a bit.
But for now the syntax that we're going to use is the add song and then we call a class method like
this and now with this decorator we can now write a function.
For example let's create a function and we'll call it adding things that will take num 1 and num to
and in here make sure we add the define for the function.
And in here we'll just return num 1 plus num to OK.
So what does this class method do.
Let me minimize this just so we can see a little bit better
now in here.
Let's see if Player 1 has access to adding things so let's just say adding things 2 and 3.
If I click Run
takes two position arguments but three were given.
That's on line 17.
So when we call this we gave it two parameters but then it was expecting it says that we actually got
three and that is because adding things the first parameter just like we have here is the CLSA and CLSA
stands for class.
So this player character that's the class that we're referring to.
So similar to what we've seen before.
But the standard is to use CLSA.
Now if I run this you'll see that we get five OK.
But looking at this it looks like it's pretty much the same as the above except instead of using self
we use CLSA.
But how is this a class method.
Well it's because we can actually use this without even instantiating a class.
Let me show you.
Let's say that we don't instantiate Player 1 and now I just simply call in here player character dot
adding things if I click Run look at that I get five.
It's a method on the actual class.
It's a class method so you can do some interesting things.
And by the way class methods aren't used as often.
So if you're thinking why do we even need this.
Well I would say ninety five percent of your classes aren't going to use something like a class method
but there are cases where this might be useful.
For example we can use the CNS to actually instantiate an object in here.
So for example I can say that CLSA which is the class which is the player character and I'm going to
instantiate it remember just like we did here with the brackets with num 1 plus num 2 as the second
parameter and we'll give it name.
Teddy if I hit run here.
Look at that I've instantiated an object Teddy with the age of what should be five So let's take this
make this equal to Player 3 and if I do Player 3 right here dot H and I click Run I get 5 so I have
a whole new player here that was created by using this class method so I was able to create just like
a created a class object attribute a class method using this at sign there's also one other way of doing
something like this which is the static method and the static method works the exact same way as here
except you do not have access to this CLSA or the class so you can't do something like we did above.
Instead we just perform some sort of method like adding things too like this so the only difference
between the two is the idea that we don't have access in our parameters to this CLSA so we would use
something like static method where we don't care anything about the class state a class state is something
like these we don't care about the attributes really we use something like a class method when we do
care about these attributes and maybe we want to modify them or change them.
Now these class method and static method is something that you won't see very often but I wanted to
show to you just because you might encounter it through your python career hopefully this wasn't too
confusing.
In the next video I want to review what we've just learned up until now.